But
I think what we need in a port such as this is a mix
between good, substantial, solid citizen local
types, people who are from this area. We want them,
but a good mix also of people from outside the area.
Most of whom will come in and live two or three years
and then want to transfer back where they came
from. I don't know if that would do it. We try to,
because drugs is so corrupt and because there's so
much money involved, and because we know that an
officer who is well known in the community might be
approached We try to take every precaution.
We try to set up an atmosphere here in the court that
won't allow any officer to ever do anything
illegal because there's always somebody who
might see him do it. In other words, we're all
watching each other. It's hard to work under those
conditions.
Whenever somebody goes wrong, it at least is in
part because there's an atmosphere that he worked
in that allowed it
to happen. I'm convinced that, let me give you an
example of this sort of thing. We had an officer.
When I first came here, he was arrested for
molesting a teenage girl out here. She was
crossing the border and he allegedly molested her
and she complained. She was 14 years old. She
complained to her mother and ultimately they went
to the police and they charged him. He was
convicted. And we got this officer. He
transferred in from US Immigration
Service. We get a lot of, or have in the past, had a
lot of bilateral transfers from my agency. It's
supposed, it should be a good way of recruiting
people. But anyway, this guy got arrested and
ultimately went to court and was convicted. And I
asked around, because I was new here, And I went
over to immigration and in conversation would
bring him up and ask, what do you think about
so-and-so? And invariably they'd say, oh, we knew
this guy was, I'm not surprised that this guy had a
long history of this kind of stuff. I said, what are
you talking about? And they'd say, well, he was in
the border patrol and he almost got fired for
getting involved with some young girl When he was
here as a customs, when he was in immigration, they
were getting ready to fire him. And then new people
picked him up. And he wasn't here 18 months before
he got arrested. And he'd been in five or six years.
And he had this history all through it. And people
knew? Yeah. And in other words, they allowed this
sort of thing to happen. And he supposedly was
dating, he's a 30-year-old man, he was supposedly
dating one of our Explorer Scouts, a 16 or
17-year-old high school girl out here, and
everybody knew it. I didn't know it. I would have
put a stop to it. But what I'm saying is that he had
this reputation, and nobody seemed to give a damn
that he was doing this. In fact, when the
Immigration Service, they were going to fire him
for this same sort of thing, and he applies for a
job, probably to save himself, and it's almost
like in the old days, World War II days, and just
after when a juvenile offender was taken before
the judge and he was given this choice to either go
to jail or go in the Army. And it seems like what we
were getting with, they were telling them either
go to jail or go to customs. And I went to Internal
Affairs when I heard this. I said, what the hell is
going on? Everybody tells me that they knew this
guy was doing these sorts of things. How did we get
him? Didn't you interview people? Didn't you do a
background check? And they said, yes, we did.
Well, they actually did a full field.
investigation on this guy's background. I said,
didn't you go to the immigration service and ask
questions? They said, yeah. I said, well, how did
we get this guy? He said, well, we didn't ask the
right questions.
And I said, didn't they, and nobody volunteered
that this guy was? He said, no, they didn't
volunteer because they wanted to get rid of
him. And this is a, you know, it's a It's kind of a
bizarre example, but we permit this to happen.
These two guys, one of whom got recently convicted
on the two bribery counts, he was always flashing
money out here. I found out after the fact. He was
always bragging about his conquests with the
girls. He was acting like a two-bit hustler out
here. And everybody was just, they sort of were
entertained by him. And by listening to him brag,
watching him flash his big bankrolls of money, he
had over $1,000 in cash when he was arrested. He had
$16,000 in cash hidden away in his house. You know
what I mean? Yeah.
That's what we're trying to do as far as integrity.
We're trying to not allow it to happen by making an
atmosphere that makes it impossible for somebody
to do this. And the only way we can do that is
everybody has to watch everybody else. I'm in
business school at A&M. And they're teaching us
right now about internal control. And they're
saying no one likes it until there's a problem. And
everyone loves it because at least there is a
witness that can say .. We have dozens of internal
controls. Every aspect of customs operation.
We have somebody who's responsible to take a look
at this particular type of transaction.
and to take a look at the control and make sure it's
working. Unfortunately, when you have to do it on a
quarterly or bimonthly or monthly or by every pay
period basis, it becomes so routine that people
begin to just sign your name, send the paper in, In
other words, they go through the motions. So we're
also trying to make sure that when an officer is
responsible for a specific control, that he
really does what he's supposed to do. He goes and he
talks to people involved in that particular
activity. He says, do you do this? Or how do you
handle a certain, how do you get the cash from this
location over there if you're safe. And the guy
says, well, I fill out such and such a form. I put it
in this bag. I lock it. I take it over and someone
signs for it. I say, okay, you show me how you do it
instead of just taking his word for it. So we're
working on that. We're working on integrity. We
have musters twice a week where the officers on the
day shift meet for an hour or a half hour. And we talk
about integrity all the time. I send electronic
mail messages frequently about integrity. We
constantly reinforce, reinforce the need not
only
to be of the highest standards themselves, but to
insist that their fellow officers also do And the
first suspicion, we had a response to let us know so
we didn't do something wrong. Because when
someone gets arrested, as has happened here, it
hurts us all for a long time. We had officers who
were called up by friends and acquaintances when
those two guys were arrested, asking saying such
things, because I hope you're not involved and
not in the building at the time.
I'm not really aware of what it hurts when people
call me out. In another issue of Newsweek, it was
reported that the United States gave Mexico $140
million in drug enforcement aid. Was that money
productive, or could it have been better spent
elsewhere, here in the
States, on education? Well, I think it probably is
worth the effort. I don't know whether it was cost
productive, cost effective or not.
I look at the drug war as an international thing.
It's not an American problem. It's not a Mexican
problem. It has to be hit from every angle. And I
think that it's proper for us to be spending money
in Mexico.
Unfortunately,
we have tried in the past for years to get Mexican
officials to cooperate with us on drug
trafficking.
And for years,
it hasn't worked. We've had several operations
down here on the border that when we tried to work
with the Mexicans, we gave them money, radios,
weapons,
in exchange for intelligence. And we never, they
took the, equipment and the money that never gave
us anything back. And so that program sort of
foundered for obvious reasons.
But I've got to say that it
appears that like the Mexican authorities are
really trying to do, they're really doing their
best, they're trying very hard to contain drugs,
to make seizures, to stop the trafficking through
their country.
I don't know why this is. I think it's
international pressure. No country wants to be
known as the drug capital of the world. There are
three South American countries in Vietnam.
Mexico, as far as the United States is concerned,
certainly has what it takes as being the number one
traffic in the country as far as I'm concerned.
Virtually everything, as we said before, most
everything comes through Mexico, if not the
United States. But it looks like they're really
trying to do something about it. It could be
because they perceive themselves as having a drug
problem of their own. This gets their attention.
This is kind of off the subject, but I'll give you an
idea of where my philosophy comes from. I used to
work overseas in customs. And back in 1973, I went
to Thailand
work with a group of American and Thai customs and
drug officials trying to develop contacts and
trying to get them to cooperate. And at that time,
it was Southeast Asian countries, as Thailand,
that were major trafficking and producing
countries for heroin from the United States.
Thailand at that time was what Mexico is now.
Everything that came to the United States seemed
to come through Thailand. And so we were over there
working with them, trying to give them money,
equipment, and everything else, trying to get
them to stop the flow. And I had a
fairly high-level official over there told me
that, first of all, they resented us being there at
that time and trying to tell them how to run their
country. And they were convinced and didn't mind
saying that this was not a Thai problem. Drugs was
an American problem. Americans would, it was an
American demand. It was even Americans, they
claimed, who were trafficking through Thailand.
At that time, they were accusing the American
military, because we still had military people
there, bringing it through and out. And they were
very hostile toward our efforts, uncooperative,
and even arrogant. They said, you're proud. Don't
bother us with this. I went back, though.
Two or three years had passed. In fact, I think I
went back again in 1979,
six years later. Some of the same people were in the
same group. This was a group of drug and, let's say,
customs people from all over the world, going to
Thailand and the United States. And so it was like
old home with it. I knew a lot of these people on a
personal basis. And the very same person who six
years previously
had told me and others that this was an American
problem and that you were off base coming to their
country and telling them how to run their country,
he addressed this whole group of drug people. And
the first thing he said was, we have a drug problem
here in Thailand and we need your help. He was
turned around, and what he was saying was, now we
need your help. It is a Thai problem, he was saying.
And he was saying that they looked up one day, and
they found they had 50,000 addicts in Bangkok.
Thais, not Americans, Thais. And they probably
have a heck of a lot more than that. The only thing,
and I think the same thing was true of France, of a
lot of the Western European countries that we
tried to get assistance from in the drug
trafficking, they never perceived it as an
international problem until they saw themselves
as having a problem with addicts and traffickers
in their own country. I think the same thing might
be happening in Mexico. I think they perceive this
now as being a Mexican problem because the drugs
aren't just coming through. They're actually,
some of them are winding up in the Mexicans. I think
the same thing is happening
in Columbia.
The Columbians now are cracking down on the
cartels are trying to in all the newspapers. And I
have a feeling that the reason why is they see
themselves
as having a drug problem in Columbia.
If there were no addicts in Columbia,
then they probably would continue to just wade
through the mud, considering it an American
problem. And now they see it as a
Colombian problem. And it may
be too late. I don't know.
But I think Mexico, in that sense, is really . OK.
This is going in a completely different
direction. But how would you compare the Mexican
border to the Canadian border? Is there any basis
for comparison in a completely different way?
About the only similarity is that they're both
borders. Canada, of course, is as much like the
United States as you can get. It's not like a
foreign country.
There's a lot of free trade between the United
States and Canada.
Reciprocal.
There are no drugs coming
in to the United States through Canada.
We know
of very little, if there is. There's a lot of drugs.
Is there a problem with drugs coming through the
United States through Canada? I would say yes.
I've never read any of them. I'd have to guess yes
because the drugs have to come from somewhere.
They have a problem in Canada as well as the United
States. They probably come up through Mexico,
through the United States, into Canada. Now,
putting the shoe on the other foot, I don't know if
we're giving them the kind of assistance that they
want or that we would expect Mexico to give us. I
hope we are. I think we are.
There's been some talk of using the military or the
National Guard to help control the borders. What
are your thoughts on that? I think as a temporary
situation, I think
we're using National Guard right now to help us in a
lot of these big border stations. to help us
inspect cargo.
Under the direction of custom inspectors, they go
out on the cargo dock and help us watch and unload
trucks so that we can do a good job inspecting it
again. As far as troops out in the field between the
ports, if that's what you're referring to, I think
yes. by all means, let's do it. I think politically
it's a little dangerous. The Mexicans
and the Canadians vote, of course, but we're
talking strictly about the southern border now.
They resent anything that would look like we were
arming our borders, massing the troops, so to
speak, at the borders. It's an act of hostility in
their eyes toward a country that we haven't been in
war with since, well, since the Mexican-American
War. And it's been not an open border, but it's been
an unarmed border for all those years.
And on the one hand, I think there would be a lot of
protest from the Mexicans in general. On the other
hand, a lot of them understand that we're doing
what we have to do. They use their own troops on the
Mexican side for drug interdiction. And they're
doing a pretty good job, from what I understand.
And it seems logical to me that they would also
approve us doing the same on this side of the
border. But I think anything that
could help bring this thing under control,
if we didn't try it, it couldn't hurt. Now we're
going to on to even a different subject. Officer
safety. Is the perceived threat on officer safety
a real threat on the border? Yeah, it is. Customs,
as a law enforcement activity, is probably not as
dangerous as a lot of other law enforcement
activities. It's not like being a policeman in a
big city, a prime minister in a big city. Most of
what we do is routine. Every once in a while,
though, um there is this element
of danger we we we try to we treat pops or safety as
every person needs to watch out for himself and
every person also needs to watch out for those
around
them we're under We work under the Treasury
Department rules on law enforcement. We are
armed. The only justification for an officer
pulling, drawing a weapon is if he intends to shoot
somebody. It's the only justification. You don't
pull a gun to hold somebody, to cover somebody.
Well, we don't do it. It's strictly self-defense
and in defense of other innocent
people. We have taken certain measures. We have
installed security cameras. Some of ours aren't
operational yet, but all along the border, we're
putting in TV cameras and monitors, bulletproof
glass. in a lot of our buildings.
We have bullet-resistant
vests that the officers can wear if they want
options, if they feel threatened, or if there's a
lookout on an armed and dangerous situation.
We believe in the buddy system. We don't send
anybody out to inspect a truck or an airplane at the
airport by itself, people in pairs, supposedly
one watching the other. We just take every
precaution to protect ourselves. And does the
recent ban on assault rifles have any significant
impact on this?
I don't think it will, because I think there are
already enough in the hands of criminals, that
they can do a lot of damage to us.
The other thing that a lot of the inspectors now are
carrying semi-automatic pistols. They're high
powered. Instead of the six shot revolver, A lot of
us are carrying in 12 to 15 shot 9mm
semi-automatic pistons that will fire very
rapidly. A lot of bullets in a short period of time
without having to reload it. I don't know what kind
of defense we could put up against automatic
weapons. I don't know. We don't have any automatic
weapons. I don't think the band
can make a difference now. Okay.
On just another little different tangent, the
1986 Immigration Act, where they gave amnesty to
the illegal residents of over eight years, has
that had any impact on protecting our borders? No,
I don't think so. The immigration situation is
different from the drug situation. It's not to say
that some of these people maybe won't carry small
amounts in, or even large amounts. We don't know.
But I think what the amnesty program has probably
brought more and more people from Mexico,
interior, and even more than that from Central
America, into this area, looking for ways to do
that. I don't think it affects customs, per se,
that much. Okay, and two final questions. First of
all, are we winning the war? And if not, what would
it take to
win? We're clearly not winning the
war. As I say, I've been involved in this war,
so-called war, since the Nixon administration,
and it's only gotten worse every year since 1973.
Every year is worse than the year before. The only
way to win the war, in my mind, is a
multi-directional
kind of an effort. But the most important thing is
we've got to stop the demand for it. I don't know how
to do that. I don't know whether it means we have to
arrest people who use it.
We certainly need education, prevention,
treatment, decriminalization maybe. I don't
know. I don't know what the answer is. All I know is
that there's always going to be an element in this
society that appears to want to do the illegal
drugs. Maybe only because they're illegal.
They're always going to want to turn their friends
on to
it. Everybody knows crack is dangerous. But
you've got a million kids who want to do it. I don't
know why. You've got to get rid of the demand. As
long as there's a demand, there are going to be
people who are going to figure out some way to get
into this country. If they can't get into this
country, then they're going to find a way to
manufacture something locally.
It's the demand that's the problem, because as
long as there's a demand, there are going to be
people who are going to make money from it.
Thank you very much, Mr. King. I appreciate your
time.